---
page_title: "Provider: RIPE DB"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The RIPE DB provider is used to interact with the objects in the RIPE database. The provider needs to be configured with the proper credentials before objects can be modified.
---

# RIPE DB Provider

The RIPE DB provider is used to interact with the objects in the RIPE database. The provider needs to be configured with the proper credentials before objects can be modified.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "ripe" {}

data "ripedb_object" "mntner_ripe" {
  class = "mntner"
  value = "RIPE-MNT"
}
```

## Authentication

The RIPE DB provider supports three authentication protocols:

- Anonymous authentication
- Basic authentication (Username/Password/API Key)
- X.509 Client Certificate authentication

### Anonymous Authentication

```terraform
provider "ripe" {}
```

### API Key Authentication

API key authentication allows you to edit the objects maintained by the authenticated maintainer.

To configure `API Key` authentication generate an API key as per [Appendix K - API Keys](https://docs.db.ripe.net/Appendices/Appendix-K--API-Keys).

```terraform
provider "ripe" {
  api_key = var.api_key
}
```

### X.509 Client Certificate Authentication

X.509 client certificate authentication provides the same capabilites as the API key authentication, the only difference is the authentication protocol.

To configure `X.509` authentication generate a client certificate as per [Appendix I - Client Certificate Authentication](https://docs.db.ripe.net/Appendices/Appendix-I--Client-Certificate-Authentication/) and add the certificate to the maintainer's authentication methods.

```terraform
provider "ripe" {
  certificate = file("$PATH_TO/cert.pem")
  key         = file("$PATH_TO/key.pem")
}
```

### Username/Password Authentication

> **DEPRECIATION NOTICE**: RIPE NCC is deprecating MD5 hashed passwords by the end of 2025.

Username/Password authentication provides the same capabilites as the API key authentication, the only difference is the authentication protocol.

You can configure an MD5 password on the maintainer and then specify the maintainer name (ending with `-MNT` as the maintainer) as the user use the configured password.

> **CAUTION**: It is possible to provider the password without the username, but it is not recommended.
> This will pass the password as a query parameter in the URL (instead of the `Authorization` header).

```terraform
provider "ripe" {
  user     = var.user
  password = var.password
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `api_key` (String, Sensitive) API key for the basic authentication protocol. You cannot use API key Authentication along with any other authentication protocol.
- `certificate` (String, Sensitive) PEM-encoded client certificate for TLS authentication. Both `certificate` and `key` must be provided. The `endpoint` field must be set appropriately if you are not using the default production API. You cannot use X.509 Authentication along with any other authentication protocol.
- `database` (String) The database where the queries should be made. This is equivalent to the `source` field of the objects.
- `endpoint` (String) The endpoint of the RIPE Database RESTful API.
- `key` (String, Sensitive) PEM-encoded client certificate key for TLS authentication. Both `certificate` and `key` must be provided. The `endpoint` field must be set appropriately if you are not using the default production API. You cannot use X.509 Authentication along with any other authentication protocol.
- `password` (String, Sensitive, Deprecated) Password for the basic authentication protocol. If no `user` is provided, the authentication will be made through the `password` query parameter instead of the `Authorizatio` header. You cannot use Password Authentication along with any other authentication protocol.
- `user` (String, Deprecated) Username for the basic authentication protocol. You cannot use Password Authentication along with any other authentication protocol.